[All Hosts] (performance) article on minimizing context.sync calls (#1734)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/concepts/correlated-objects-pattern.md

---
title: Avoid using the context.sync method in loops
description: 'Learn how to use the split loop and correlated objects patterns to avoid calling context.sync in a loop.'
ms.date: 04/09/2020
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Avoid using the context.sync method in loops

> [!NOTE]

> > This article assumes that you're beyond the beginning stage of working with at least one of the four host-specific Office JavaScript APIs &mdash; for Excel, Word, OneNote, and Visio &mdash; that use a batch system to interact with the Office document. In particular, you should know what a call of `context.sync` does and you should know what a collection object is. If you're not at that stage, please start with [Understanding the Office JavaScript API](../develop/understanding-the-javascript-api-for-office.md) and the documentation linked to under "host-specific" in that article.

Reviewer: I thought there should not be spaces around an em dash? (https://styleguides.azurewebsites.net/Styleguide/Read?id=2700&topicid=28766)

    const contentControls = context.document.contentControls.load("items");
    await context.sync();

    const firstParagraphsOfCCs = [];
    for (let i = 0; i < contentControls.items.length; i++) {
      const paragraph = contentControls.items[i].getRange('Whole').paragraphs.getFirst();
      paragraph.load('text');
      firstParagraphsOfCCs.push(paragraph);
    }

    await context.sync();

    for (let i = 0; i < firstParagraphsOfCCs.length; i++) {
      console.log(firstParagraphsOfCCs[i].text);
    }
});
```

The preceding example suggests the following procedure for turning a loop that contains a `context.sync` into the split loop pattern: 

1. Replace the loop with two loops.
2. Create a first loop to iterate over the collection and add each item to an array while also loading any property of the item that needs to be read by your code. 
3. Following the first loop, call `context.sync` to populate the proxy objects with any loaded properties. 
4. Follow the `context.sync` with a second loop to iterate over the array created in the first loop and read the loaded properties in it.

## Processing objects in the document with the correlated objects pattern

> Let's consider a more complex scenario in which processing the items in the collection requires data that isn't in the items themselves. The scenario envisions a Word add-in that operates on documents created from a template with some boilerplate text. Scattered in the text are one or more instances of the following placeholder strings: "{Coordinator}", "{Deputy}", and "{Manager}". The add-in replaces each placeholder with some person's name. The UI of the add-in is not important to this article. For example, it could have a task pane with three text boxes, each labelled with one of the placeholders. The user enters a name in each text box and then presses a Replace button. The handler for the button creates an array that maps the names to the placeholders, and then replaces each placeholder with the assigned name. 

Author: I prefer the "in which" for precision.

- For an example for Word that is written in TypeScript, see the sample [Word Add-in Angular2 Style Checker](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Word-Add-in-Angular2-StyleChecker), especially the file [word.document.service.ts](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Word-Add-in-Angular2-StyleChecker/blob/master/app/services/word-document/word.document.service.ts). It has a mixture of `for` loops and `Array.forEach` loops.
- For an advanced Word sample, import [this gist](https://gist.github.com/9c5a803e52480ec7f00bb3224292e0ab) into the [Script Lab tool](../overview/explore-with-script-lab.md). For context in using the gist, see the checked answer to the Stack Overflow question [Document not in sync after replace text](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48227941/document-not-in-sync-after-replace-text). This sample creates a custom correlating object type that has three properties. It uses a total of three loops to construct the array of correlated objects, and two more loops to do the final processing. There are a mixture of `for` loops and `Array.forEach` loops.

> - Although not strictly an example of the split loop or correlated objects patterns, for an advanced Excel sample in which a set of cell values are coverted to other currencies with just a single `context.sync`, open the [Script Lab tool](../overview/explore-with-script-lab.md) and navigate to the **Currency Converter** sample. 

Reviewer: I don't think the subject is consistent throughout the original sentence.
```suggestion
- Although not strictly an example of the split loop or correlated objects patterns, this advanced Excel sample shows how to convert a set of cell values to other currencies with just a single `context.sync`. To try it, open the [Script Lab tool](../overview/explore-with-script-lab.md) and navigate to the **Currency Converter** sample. 
```

> ## When should you not use the patterns in this article?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When should you *not* use the patterns in this article?
```

> Excel cannot read more than 5 MB in data in a given call of `context.sync`. If this limit is exceeded an error is thrown. (For more information, see [Excel data transfer limits](../develop/common-coding-issues.md#excel-data-transfer-limits).) It is very rare that this limit is approached, but if there's a chance that this will happen with your add-in, then your code should *not* load all the data in a single loop and follow the loop with a `context.sync`. But you still should avoid having a `context.sync` in every iteration of a loop over a collection object. Instead, define subsets of the items in the collection and loop over each subset in turn, with a `context.sync` between the loops. You could structure this with an outer loop that iterates over the subsets and contains the `context.sync` in each of these outer iterations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Excel cannot read more than 5 MB of data in a given call of `context.sync`. If this limit is exceeded, an error is thrown. (For more information, see [Excel data transfer limits](../develop/common-coding-issues.md#excel-data-transfer-limits).) It is very rare that this limit is approached, but if there's a chance that this will happen with your add-in, then your code should *not* load all the data in a single loop and follow the loop with a `context.sync`. But you still should avoid having a `context.sync` in every iteration of a loop over a collection object. Instead, define subsets of the items in the collection and loop over each subset in turn, with a `context.sync` between the loops. You could structure this with an outer loop that iterates over the subsets and contains the `context.sync` in each of these outer iterations.
```
